Now we got no list where it would make super much sense to be very honest,
we got very short lists here,
so in reality in this application, you would probably not use virtual scrolling for any list but as
this app grows, you could argue that more and more places are offered,
so maybe you want to work virtually render those and therefore let me demonstrate virtual scrolling
at the example of the discover page here.
Now how do you use virtual scrolling?
You replace your ion-list here with ion-virtual-scroll,
so instead of ion-list, you're using ion-virtual-scroll
and of course therefore you also close
ion-virtual-scroll down there and ion-virtual-scroll is a separate component shipping with Ionic which you
find here under the list section,
here it is.
There you can also learn more about the technique that gets used and how to configure it and what you
can now do is here on ion-virtual-scroll,
you still have your ion-item in there but it works a bit different now, you're not using ngFor
because ngFor it would automatically render all items.
So instead, here we can remove ngFor and on ion-virtual-scroll,
you have to bind an items property. Now the items property then takes the array which you want to render
and it needs to get that array because it can then efficiently render the items which should be rendered
because they're about to get visible.
So here I'm passing in my sliced array, so all the items but the first one and on the ion-item, you now
still want to get access to every single item,
right,
because we're also outputting data for it and therefore here, you add *virtualItem, that's a
custom structural directive provided by Ionic Angular. So *virtualItem then has to be bound to let
and then any name of your choice, for example let place and then you have the place variable available
again,
so this is just a syntax you can memorize or view in the official docs.
With that if we save that and we go back to our list here, it reloads and it's missing and here, the slice
one is the problem,
such a dynamically calculated list, it will not work here.
Now what you can do to circumvent this since we're not changing this dynamically, the amount of items
we want to slice of, we can adjust this such that here in this discovery page component class, we add listed
loaded places as another property for example, like this and in ngOnInit where we load everything,
I set this listed loaded places equal to this loaded places slice and if we do that and we go back
to discovery page, to the template, then here we can point items at listed loaded places and now as this
reloads, it will render our list of places correctly again,
here they are. Now this list of course is not super long and therefore we can't see that scrolling effect
and you actually shouldn't see it because it will render items before they scroll into view
but now if this were a longer list, you would have optimized it.
One important other note, to optimize the way this loads the elements and to let the logic behind this
component know when to pre-render a new item, you should actually approximate the height of a list item,
which you can do here for example with the help of the dev tools.
I can see that here, an item is roughly around 70 pixels high.
Now you don't need the exact value but a rough estimation,
it assumes a default of 40 pixels which is certainly not the case here
and if you deviate from that assumed height by more than let's say just 4 pixels or anything like
that, you should add the approx item height attribute here and set that to the value you are approximating
because this behind the scenes allows the virtual scroll component to efficiently prepare the items
before they come into view because it knows how far you have to scroll down or how many items fit into
a single scrolling action so to say and therefore, how many items in advance it should prepare, the items.
So that is how you should use virtual scrolling.
Again, keep in mind that you should not use it on every single list you have but on lists that may become
very long and where you can't predict how many items might be on them.
So if you have a page where you restrict the amount of items you're rendering or let's say you have
a list where you're gathering user input and you do that with an ion-list, with a lot of ion-items, with
ion-inputs in them, then you don't need virtual scrolling but for unpredictable long lists, it can be
pretty good.